ai2orbit-site - deploying to Cloud Run
Copyright (c) AI2ORBIT Co. 2026

WHAT THIS IS

  The site, packaged so that Cloud Run can run it. Four files of content
  and a web server around them. No build step, no framework, nothing to
  install: what is in this folder is exactly what gets served.

  Project taken from the console link: rising-ethos-287519
  I cannot sign in to the console, so the commands below are the whole
  job and they run from a machine that is already signed in.

BEFORE THE FIRST DEPLOY, ONCE

  gcloud config set project rising-ethos-287519

  gcloud services enable run.googleapis.com \
                         cloudbuild.googleapis.com \
                         artifactregistry.googleapis.com

  The three are needed together: Cloud Build turns this folder into an
  image, Artifact Registry stores it, Cloud Run runs it.

DEPLOY

  cd ai2orbit-site

  gcloud run deploy ai2orbit-site \
      --source . \
      --region europe-north1 \
      --allow-unauthenticated \
      --memory 256Mi \
      --min-instances 0 \
      --max-instances 4

  That is the whole thing. It prints a https://ai2orbit-site-....run.app
  address at the end, and that address is live immediately with a
  certificate already on it.

  --source . means Docker is NOT needed on the machine running this. The
  folder is uploaded and built by Cloud Build, which finds the Dockerfile
  here and uses it.

  REGION. europe-north1 is Hamina, Finland - the closest region, and the
  one that keeps the data in the country. Any region works; if it is
  changed, change it in every command below too.

  --min-instances 0 means it scales to nothing when nobody is looking at
  it, and a site like this sits inside the free monthly allowance in
  normal use. The first request after an idle period waits about a second
  for the container to start. Setting it to 1 removes that wait and is
  the one setting here that costs money continuously.

UPDATING IT

  Same command. Each deploy is a new revision and traffic moves to it as
  soon as it is healthy; the previous revision stays in the list and can
  be rolled back to from the console in one click.

  The page is served with Cache-Control: no-cache, so a browser picks up
  a redeploy at once rather than showing yesterday's copy.

IF THE DEPLOY SUCCEEDS BUT THE PAGE ASKS FOR A LOGIN

  --allow-unauthenticated has to give the run.invoker role to allUsers,
  and a Workspace organisation very often has a policy in place -
  iam.allowedPolicyMemberDomains - that refuses to grant anything to a
  group outside the domain. The deploy still succeeds; the site just
  answers 403 to everyone outside the company.

  It is a one line refusal in the output, and the fix is a policy
  exception for this project made by whoever administers the
  organisation. It is not something wrong with the image.

A CUSTOM DOMAIN

  The run.app address works straight away and needs no DNS at all, so
  nothing is blocked on this.

  For a real domain there are two routes, and which one applies depends
  on the project and region - I cannot see the console, so this is NOT
  STATED rather than a recommendation:

    gcloud beta run domain-mappings create \
        --service ai2orbit-site --domain www.example.com \
        --region europe-north1

  is the simple one - it prints the DNS records to add and manages the
  certificate. It is not offered in every region.

  Where it is not offered, the route that always works is a global
  external load balancer in front of the service. It is more setup and it
  has a standing monthly cost, unlike the service itself.

  Either way the domain and the place its DNS is managed are still the
  two things I need from your side.

EMBEDDING IT IN A GOOGLE SITES PAGE INSTEAD

  Sites will not accept an HTML file, but it will embed a URL. Once this
  is deployed, "Embed > By URL" with the run.app address puts the page
  inside a Sites page.

  The content security policy this server sends deliberately allows that
  embedding - and only from Google. Left at the safe default the embed
  would have shown an empty box with the reason visible only in a
  browser console.

CHECKING IT BEFORE OR AFTER

  sh check-container.sh

  Builds the image, runs it, and makes 25 assertions about the running
  container: that it honours PORT, that the bytes served are the file on
  disk, that every screenshot arrives whole, that the policy is on the
  page AND on an image, that a missing path is a 404. It needs podman or
  docker locally. It is not needed to deploy.

  After a deploy, the same questions against the live address:

    curl -sI https://<address>/            | head -20
    curl -s  https://<address>/healthz

WHAT IS DELIBERATELY NOT IN THE PAGE

  No logo artwork of any kind, and no Avainlippu. The wordmark is set as
  plain text with a marked swap line in index.html, because setting a
  wordmark in a web font is redrawing it. Drop the real asset into img/
  and change that one line.

  The contact block is blank rather than filled with something plausible.
